---
title: Fanny
subtitle: A $100m idea not worth pursuing.
layout: default
date: 2025-02-10
keywords: Startups, Technology, People
published: true
---

For many people, the hardest part about building things is knowing what to build. In other words: coming up with good ideas.\[1\] Luckily, ideating has been second nature for as long as I can remember. Early on, I generated ideas that were interesting but not feasible. I did a full 180º afterwards, prioritizing feasibility over creativity, and ended up mirroring existing products. Thankfully, I’ve since learned the value of covering both aspects; both have helped shape my product taste.

I was on a bit of a SaaS hot streak towards the end of last year and found myself on #BuildInPublic – before I boycotted and moved to Bluesky. At the time, my goal was to bootstrap a micro-SaaS for a niche market (as niche markets are my thing), scale it within that community, and land an exit via an online startup marketplace. The idea that I felt most drawn to was Pubbler: the self-learning writing assistant for Substack writers. It was meant to be a browser extension that worked exclusively for Substack to make onboarding and usage as seamless as possible.

Here’s how I saw it: $10/mo × 7.5k Substack newsletters (~10% TAM) = $75k MRR

As a simple browser extension tool, costs would have been low, and margins would have been quite favorable. Within a month, we had a ton of waitlist signups (largely through Reddit and word-of-mouth), and our v1 was built through a dev agency. I ultimately decided not to go ahead with Pubbler due to changing circumstances in my co-founder’s life – and intuition, maybe influenced by that.\[2\]

Nonetheless, I had another particularly interesting idea based on the same rationale. Fanny was an all-in-one tool for OnlyFans (OF) creators to handle all their admin in one place: multichannel marketing, online storefronts, financials, and so on — even including voice-enabled auto-replies based on ElevenLabs’ API.

Here’s how I saw the opportunity: $25/mo × 800k OF creators (~20% TAM) = $20m MRR

…and potentially over $100m ARR. In no time, I put together a quick demo showing how it could work; I designed this with a focus on product empathy.\[3\] Yet, I decided not to pursue this. On paper, Fanny has all the elements of a potential unicorn: strong moat, growing user base, low friction, and potential for geographic scalability. Should an alternative exist in the future, I wouldn’t be surprised if it hits a $1bn valuation in a year or two.

I decided not to pursue Fanny because I didn’t envisage myself working on this – and enjoying it – within a year. Despite working on multiple projects that didn’t pan out, I don’t count any as a waste simply because each was enjoyable. That being said, I don’t regret printing flyers on Awolowo Road for Banga, speed-pitching Shora at TechCrunch Boston, or salon-hopping in Shoreditch to find users for Brade. It’s extremely important I give my all to anything I’m working on, and I’m simply more likely to stick with what I’ve got a good feeling about.

\[1\] In simple terms: a good idea is that which is both valuable and feasible. 

\[2\] I’m a big advocate in paying attention to one’s gut feelings - even if one decides to not follow through.

\[3\] My time spent building for salons taught me the importance of designing products which are both powerful and easy-to-use.
