---
title: TL;DR
subtitle: A retrospective on a year as a first-time founder.
layout: default
date: 2025-02-02
keywords: Startups, Technology
published: true
---

A few things I'm learning and unlearning as a first-time-founder:

1.  Ambition is good, provided there is some level of direction; even Icarus knew in which direction he was flying.
    
2.  Draw up best- and worst-case scenarios before pursuing anything to manage expectations early on.
    
3.  Anyone can start a company, not just anyone can – or wants to seriously – build products people love to use.
    
4.  Emotion and ego can be good motivators, but keep both in check to avoid bad decisions.
    
5.  Read others' stories, listen to advice, and develop the required discernment and pattern recognition.
    
6.  Do not emulate others & take all advice simply for the sake of it. Another ode to discernment.
    
7.  Sometimes pivot, and other times wait it out and grind out a full rep. More importantly, have conviction in whichever you choose.
    
8.  Burning bridges isn't inevitable. Try your best to not let this happen by playing fair always.
    
9.  Follow your intuition, and believe that things will fall into place. Yes, another ode to conviction.
    
10.  You're better off being more trusting than not. This applies to most things.
    
11.  Door-to-door sales are a pain in the ass. High-friction, low-scale sales are rarely worth it. Not only are they tedious, but also pretty ineffective given the alternatives at our disposal.
    
12.  People tend to get naturally energised by ideas they believe in. If in doubt of their enthusiasm, there's the answer.
    
13.  Mind games are a waste of time, you're better off taking things at face value. See #9.
    
14.  If an idea takes longer than a month to validate with a _handful_ of users, no one probably wants it.
    
15.  Word-of-mouth is the most powerful lever. The goal is to build something users can't wait to tell others about.
    
16.  Be wary of big talkers with little risk appetite.
    
17.  Building for high-trust markets is only worth it if you have the network advantage or a truly pressing solution. Otherwise, you'll burn months gaining 'trust' before realising the idea was mediocre and/or undesirable.
    
18.  Don't completely avoid working with friends, but simply choose wisely.
    
19.  Having a group of people you can count on makes this thing 10x easier.
    
20.  Having a group of people you can celebrate little wins with makes this thing 100x more worth it.
